oct MF release notes and jdbc (#6377)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/release-notes.md

## October 2024

> - **Enhancement**: The dbt Semantic Layer JDBC now allows users to paginate can paginate `semantic_layer.metrics()` and `semantic_layer.dimensions()` for metrics and dimensions using `page_size` and `page_number` parameters. Refer to [Paginate metadata calls](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enhancement**: The dbt Semantic Layer JDBC now allows users to paginate `semantic_layer.metrics()` and `semantic_layer.dimensions()` for metrics and dimensions using `page_size` and `page_number` parameters. Refer to [Paginate metadata calls](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata) for more information.
```

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

I removed the duplicate / wording "can paginate" typo.

Kind Regards
Natalie

> - **Enhancement**: The dbt Semantic Layer JDBC now allows you to filter your metrics to include only those that contain a specific substring, using the `search` parameter. If no substring is provided, the query returns all metrics. Refer to [Fetch metrics by substring search](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enhancement**: The dbt Semantic Layer JDBC now allows you to filter your metrics to include only those that contain a specific [substring](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/cross-database-macros#position), using the `search` parameter. If no substring is provided, the query returns all metrics. Refer to [Fetch metrics by substring search](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata) for more information.
```

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna 

Like the above, I thought it might be a good idea to link out the word substring in case the user doesn't know what it is (non-blocking suggestion).

Kind Regards
Natalie

Author: hey @nataliefiann , that links to a jinja macro, 'position' so i'm not sure its a good link. since it's a release note, i don't think we need we need to spell it out but i can add that it's a text in the jdbc doc

Author: added it to the jdbc doc: sequence of characters contained within a larger string (text)

- **New:** Enabled `where` filters  on dimensions (included in saved queries) to use the cache during query time. This means you can now dynamically filter your dashboards without losing the performance benefits of caching. Refer to [caching](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-cache#result-caching) for more information.
- **Enhancement:** In [Google Sheets](/docs/cloud-integrations/semantic-layer/gsheets), we added information icons and descriptions to metrics and dimensions options in the Query Builder menu. Click on the **Info** icon button to view a description of the metric or dimension. Available in the following Query Builder menu sections: metric, group by, where, saved selections, and saved queries.
- **Enhancement:** In [Google Sheets](/docs/cloud-integrations/semantic-layer/gsheets), you can now apply granularity to all time dimensions, not just metric time. This update uses our [APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview) to support granularity selection on any chosen time dimension.

> - **Enhancement**: MetricFlow times spine warnings now prompt users to configure missing or small-grain-time spines. For multiple time spines per granularity, an error message will be displayed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enhancement**: MetricFlow time spine warnings now prompt users to configure missing or small-grain-time spines. For multiple time spines per granularity, an error message will be displayed.
```

Reviewer: Hiya Mirna

I removed the plural s from time as it read a bit odd in my head and out loud and added a full stop at the end of the sentence.

Kind Regards
Natalie

> - **Enhancement**: MetricFlow time spine warnings now prompt users to configure missing or small-grain-time spines. For multiple time spines per granularity, an error message will be displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Enhancement**: MetricFlow time spine warnings now prompt users to configure missing or small-grain-time spines. An error message is displayed for multiple time spines per granularity.
```
